Luke chapter 17 verse number 11 and reads as follows.
And it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem and he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
And as he entered into a certain village, there met him 10 men that were lepers, which stood afar off.
And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, master, have mercy on us.
And when he saw them, he sent them to them, go show yourselves unto the priests.
And it came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed.
And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face and his feet, giving him thanks.
And he was a Samaritan.
And Jesus answering said, were there not 10 clans, but where are the nine?
They are not found that return to give glory to God saved this stranger.
And he said unto him, arise, go thy way, thy faith,
path made the whole.
Let's pray before again today's message.
Dear God, thank you for your word, the Bible.
Thank you for this Thanksgiving season that we have to remember you and honor you and give thanks to you.
Lord, we ask that you be with this congregation today as we gather here to hear your word and honor you and praise you.
Be with me now as I try to speak your word the best I can.
In Jesus' name, amen.
Alright, so today I'm going to steal a page out of the Willi playbook, and we're going to talk about one of the miracles of Jesus.
But this miracle of Jesus ties in with the timely current events, right?
Because it has to do with Thanksgiving.
And then you will also see as we study, it has to do with other current events that we're going, living through.
today and I thought it was quite appropriate.
So that's why today for once we'll be looking at this miracle of Jesus.
Although as you can see from the picture I picked from the handout, I don't have the fabulous artwork, right?
So let's get into the verses today and see what happened.
What did Jesus do?
How does that relate at all to Thanksgiving?
And what can we learn from this?
So Jesus
miracle here is to heal 10 lepers.
Now what we're talking about when we're talking about leprosy.
Let's talk about a little bit about the background first so we get the right ideas so we understand the scope of what happens.
I think most of us have some idea of what leprosy is if you study the Bible.
I think it's a well-known enough thing.
Even people that don't know the Bible know about leprosy.
It's really ancient
Disease, right?
And people have known for many years as a horrible disease, basically caused by bacteria that eats your skin, right?
That can't get much worse than that.
The bacteria eats your skin.
It kills your nerves.
It causes you to lose feeling.
And you know, because of that, you get all disfigured.
And that's the famous thing about leprosy, you get disfigured and stuff.
And because of all the nerve damages and stuff it does to your body, there's all this weird stuff you hear about, your fingers fall off, your toes fall off, all that kind of horrible stuff.
And it makes you more susceptible to things like infection and of course, dying.
We also know that, you know, back then, even in Bible times,
People knew that, oh, this is a contagious disease, right?
And nowadays, we know more about the disease, obviously, and they've given a new name.
It's now called Hansen's disease, Hansen's disease.
And so now that we have medical science, we know about how this disease works.
And the way the disease works is that, oh, it's communicated through the air, right?
That you breathe other people, and then if you breathe in their air, you might get the disease.
Now that sounds kind of familiar to what we're living in today, right?
And the other thing about it, kind of similar to what we're living through today, right?
With COVID-19.
It's not one of those things where, oh, if you saw some leper walking on the street and then he walked past you, you get the disease instantly and you die, right?
What, you know, scientists today know now is that, oh, it comes from prolonged exposure
to the guy with the disease, right?
Like if you're like locked in a room with the guy with no windows and sitting with the guy for like an hour and he's talking at you, singing at you and yelling at you, oh, you might get the disease, which sounds very familiar to us today, right?
Because nowadays you said, oh, go lock yourself in a room with a stranger and let them yell at you and sing at you and do whatever to you for an hour.
You'd be very scared that, oh, we might get COVID-19 or whatever, right?
So I found that to be very,
Very eye-opening when I read a little bit about, you know, what is Hanson's disease?
What is leprosy today?
Now the good news is that today is curable.
They found cure for disease.
It's not a surprising cure.
Nowadays, we have antibiotics, right?
It's a bacterial disease.
Use antibiotics, and you can kill the bacteria.
If you start your antibiotics early enough to stop the disease, right?
Obviously, they need to have antibiotics in Jesus' day, right?
In Jesus' day, if you had it, you had it, right?
and everybody knew about this, right?
Everybody knew that there was no cure back then, right?
It was well known.
How well known was it?
It was even used as a form of judgment, right?
Back in the Old Testament, we read about people like Naaman who got leprosy and Uzziah who got leprosy as kind of a punishment, right?
So everybody knew this.
They knew, oh, leprosy is really bad.
And sometimes it could be a sign that you're being punished even, right?
That there's nothing they could do other than saying, oh,
You got a quarantine, another familiar word that we hear a lot nowadays, right?
Once you get the disease, you got a quarantine.
In fact, the Bible even has standards for evaluating leprosy.
Believe it or not, you can read Leviticus 13 and 14 on your own.
It's two very long chapters.
And what does it explain?
If you have leprosy symptoms, go see the priest.
And what will the priest do?
The priest is just like the ancient day COVID tester, right?
He has to do all this stuff and check you.
And meanwhile, they do what?
You gotta quarantine for seven days.
You gotta wash your clothes and clean your house.
I'm like, this is, God knows how to keep people safe.
It's the same stuff we hear today, right?
That, oh, if you got it, you gotta quarantine for seven days and wash all your clothes and clean all your house.
It's like the same stuff, right?
So he put it in the Bible.
God's smart, right?
He knows how to keep people safe from diseases.
The bad thing about back in the Bible days, though, is if it turns out you got the disease, you're done, right?
It wasn't just you quarantined for 14 days and maybe you get better, it's you quarantined forever, because they didn't know how to deal with disease.
They didn't have antibiotics, right?
If you have long-term exposure, imagine your family.
You're gonna live with your family forever.
They're gonna get the disease eventually if they keep on sitting next to you, right?
People had to leave their families, their communities, and everything to live alone once you get this leprosy.
So it's a horrible, horrible disease.
And people knew this.
People knew that it was a horrible disease.
So these 10 lepers that Jesus meant, they knew they were in trouble.
They knew they had a hard life coming.
And you knew they were real lepers because of this, right?
We read about it in verse number 12.
In verse number 12, it said that, you know, Jesus entered in a certain village and he met the 10 men.
And what did they do?
It said, what?
Which stood afar off, right?
You know they had disease because they knew they had to maintain a social distance, right?
They stayed far off from Jesus.
Once again, the Bible has good health tips for everyone, right?
Applicable even today.
You're sick, you stay far off.
You don't run up to Jesus and start breathing all over him and say,
Jesus, whatever.
Although, you know, Jesus is God.
I'm sure if they ran up to him, breathe all over him, he wouldn't have gotten sick anyways, right?
But still, the point stands.
They knew they were sick and contagious.
They stood far off from everyone.
Just like today, we know that if you have a disease or you're coughing or whatever, don't get next to me.
Just stay a little bit further away, right?
Very familiar words to us today.
So they stood far off and they probably knew
They probably knew that back earlier on in Jesus' ministry, he did heal one leper, right?
I don't even remember if Willie covered that one or not about how he healed that one leper by touching him, right?
And so maybe they knew about that.
And they knew, oh, he healed that one guy.
Maybe he could help us.
They probably felt like this was their only chance, right?
Like, what else could you do?
There's no antibiotics.
What are we going to do?
Jesus is the only way to help us now, right?
We heard about him.
He heals people.
He heals lepers.
Let's reach out to him.
They call out to him from far off, right?
The best they can.
They yell at him, Jesus, master, have mercy on us.
And then Jesus, pretty nonchalant about this, right?
All he says is this, we read about it in verse number 14.
Verse number 14, he says this, he says, oh, go show yourselves unto the priests, right?
And like I said, back in Leviticus,
it said that the priests were kind of like the health inspector, the COVID checkers of the day, right?
They're supposed to inspect people for leprosy.
So kind of a weird answer.
They're like, oh, you know, one would think that that might not be a good thing, that if you go to the priest and they check you and they find out you got the disease, you're done, right?
You're done.
You gotta go live in quarantine.
But you know, these people, they were desperate and they had the faith to believe in Jesus.
They said, you know, Jesus, you say go to the priest,
we will go to the priests, right?
And that's what they did.
They said, okay, let's go to the priests.
Let's start walking there.
And what happened as they were walking there, the miracle happened.
Like, is that a pretty nonchalant miracle?
It wasn't like, you know, you might imagine in like a movie where there's like, you know, clouds bursting out of the sky and thunder and lightning and big noises and whatever.
It's just no, they start walking and then somehow they're healed.
You can imagine it.
You can imagine these 10 guys that have been hanging out together.
They're walking and then all of a sudden they look to the guy at the right and say, hey you, look at you, right?
And that guy looks back at you and says, hey you, look at you.
And they look at each other and they turn around and they're all healed, all 10 of them, just like that.
It was an unmistakable and undeniable demonstration of Jesus' power that everyone could see.
Because everyone knew what leprosy was.
Everyone knew that was an instant sentence to a lifetime of loneliness and quarantine.
And how amazing it was.
Because you can see it.
You can see the scars on their face.
You can see their problems.
And you can see how they went away just like that.
Oh my.
Jesus.
How powerful is He.
This disease that people think represents God's judgment.
He overcame that.
He's powerful.
He can overcome that.
And you know what's interesting about this is it's not just a great miracle of Jesus.
It's a great, this story is also a great parable of Jesus.
A real life parable.
You know a lot of parables are just stories that Jesus talked about.
This is a real life example.
Because what happens next?
What happens next?
Of the ten healed, of the ten that were healed, only one of those people turned back around
to give thanks to Jesus, right?
The other nine kept walking on their way, went on with their life, right?
And interestingly enough, the one guy who turned back, he was Samaritan too.
Jesus calls him a stranger in the Bible, a stranger.
What happened was those other nine had no interest in Jesus anymore, right?
They got what they wanted.
They wanted something from Jesus.
They believe Jesus could help them, right?
Well, you can give me this healing.
I definitely believe I can give this healing from you.
Oh, I got the healing.
I'm done with you, Jesus.
I'm moving on with my life now, right?
Only this one person had the different attitude.
You know, there's a lot of people that treat Jesus and the church like that today, right?
Very transactionally, right?
Transactionally, what is the church good for, right?
Oh, maybe,
You know, some people, you know, this week Thanksgiving, they say, oh, the church is good for like food, right?
Like, oh, I will show up the church to some of these churches that are giving out free turkeys this week, right?
I'm gonna get my free turkey for Thanksgiving.
You know, it's like a food bank week for many churches, right?
They get their turkey and they go home, right?
They don't need this church anymore.
I want there for the free food.
I got it.
I don't care, right?
They're like the nine lepers.
They missed the point.
The church is not supposed to be giving out the turkey just for giving out the turkey.
It's supposed to be giving out the turkey and encouraging people to show up to share the message of Jesus Christ.
So that's what happened then and certainly that's what's happening now and I think what we see from this leper is that we get an important message from him, an important lesson
from him of the attitude he had and the way that he handled getting healed by Jesus.
So let's take a little look at this guy, the one thankful leper.
The key thing about this guy is that he understood the real implication of what had happened.
The other people, they treated it as like, oh, I needed the medical treatment.
I got the medical treatment and I left, right?
This guy was smart.
He put two and two together.
He knew this.
This disease was uncurable.
This disease people knew was a disease of horrible judgment.
And this guy, Jesus, he was able to heal me of that disease.
He was able to conquer that disease.
What this tells me is
There's something special about this guy, Jesus.
Right?
That's his logical conclusion that he figured out.
That he knows that the only person that could overcome the disease of God's judgment would be God himself.
Isn't that right?
If you believe that this is the same disease that God gave to Naaman and Uzziah, right, as punishment, then who could overcome that?
Who could do that miracle?
Only the man of God or God himself.
He figured that out and he figured out that there was something more important than his physical healing as a result.
He knew he got the physical healing.
He knew that he had health now but he wanted something more.
He wanted a relationship with that guy because he knew that guy was powerful.
He knew that guy was significant.
He knew that guy was God.
He went back there.
He went back there and what did he do?
He got down on his knees.
He praised God.
He thanked God.
He went to Jesus and honored him.
And he recognized Jesus as his God and his Lord.
He recognized how powerful Jesus was.
He thanked Jesus.
for what he had done.
And because of that, because he recognized beyond just the simple of, oh, God, you helped me on feeling better.
He got an even greater blessing.
And that greater blessing is that he got salvation.
Jesus tells him in verse number 19, he says what?
Arise and go thy way.
Thy faith hath made thee whole.
Yeah, he got the physical healing first.
He came back and he got the even more important thing, the spiritual healing.
Jesus might have saved him from the earthly death first, but even more so, he saved him from the second death, the death of hell.
Because he was able to recognize this.
Jesus, you are my God.
Jesus, you were the one to save me.
You are God.
Only you have that power.
That thankful leper has a lesson to us all.
That he was smart.
That he realized who Jesus was and what Jesus was deserving of.
And of course he was richly rewarded for that.
More rewarded than the other nine where we don't know if they ever really got saved or if they were just happy to get healed and move on with their life, right?
That leper
is an example for us even today in how he gave thanks to God, how he gave thanks to Jesus.
It says in verse 15, and when one of them, he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God.
So the first thing we see this guy did, he glorified God with a loud voice.
Not a quiet voice.
Not in private, not in secret.
He wanted people to hear, thank you Jesus.
It was important to pee him that people hear this, thank you Jesus.
And we know, just as human beings, we like it when someone actually thanks us out loud, right?
I'm sure a lot of you guys in your workplaces, you guys have similar things, like what we have and I have in my work and we'll reserve from other workplaces.
that, you know, it's an important thing for employers to thank their employees sometimes.
Even McDonald's has employee of the month, right?
And that's a recognition, you know, small recognition.
Oh, this guy is the best fry cook, right?
At my work, they have like a quarterly email that goes out to whole company, right?
That says, oh, these are the people that did fabulous things these three months, right?
And you get highlighted in that by the firm CEO, right?
And I've known other people that work different places.
They do different things, right?
They have team meetings, quarterly.
And at the quarterly team meeting, sometimes they have kudos, right?
Oh, they say this guy, he worked really hard on this project.
Thank you, right?
And everywhere, people do that.
It's a small gesture, but people like to hear that, right?
Oh, thanks for this, right?
Because one time, there was one job I used to work at, where I had this one boss that didn't do that.
and it frustrated this one co-worker of mine to no end.
He would say this, look, we work for this guy day and night, 50 hours a week, 60 hours a week, sometimes six days a week, seven days a week.
We work up this case.
And then finally, after so many weeks, we win the case.
And you think it's a big deal.
And he didn't even take one minute to say something like, oh, thanks team, good work.
Instead he's just like, okay, that's what we expected.
Okay, on to the next one, right?
That's just the guy's personality.
And that really bugged my co-worker to the point where he didn't like that guy and eventually he quit that job because he felt like under-appreciated.
So if we humans feel under-appreciated, under-appreciated without that verbal confirmation, doesn't God feel the same?
Doesn't God feel the same that we're not praising him with a loud voice, right?
You know, I'm lucky I could go up here in front of all you guys and praise God loudly all the time, right?
What about you guys?
Are you guys taking the chance that you have to praise God loudly, to tell your family, to tell your friends, to tell the world what God did for you?
Don't keep it a secret.
This guy didn't keep it a secret.
He didn't say, oh God, you saved me from my leprosy.
Now I'm going to tell no one and go away, hide it.
He wanted to tell people with a loud voice, this is what God does for me.
Will you guys do the same?
to tell people, to tell people you know, to tell your family, tell your friends, to tell people right here next week when we have the Thanksgiving testimony, are you gonna use your loud voices to proclaim God?
There's a second thing that this guy did.
And a third that's all tied together.
It says in verse 16, and when he fell down on his face and his feet, giving him thanks.
and he was a Samaritan.
It's in verse 16.
What did this guy do?
Not only did he use a loud voice, he fell down and worshiped Jesus.
Right?
And he gave thanks to Jesus.
One of the important things to note is that worship and thanks are intertwined together.
They're intertwined together.
The thanks are the words.
The words are important.
They're meaningful.
But sometimes,
The action backing it up is important too, right?
And we know that even from work, like those examples we gave, right?
It's great to be employee of the month at McDonald's, right?
Or it's great to be recognized at your work in some email or some meeting or whatever.
But you know what means even more?
When they recognize you by thanking you and giving you a bonus, right?
Or giving you a raise.
That's like a real action now.
It's not just a word.
There's an action that goes with it, right?
Likewise, God wants our worship to go along with our thanks.
He wants us to praise him right here together as the body of Christ.
That's what he loves.
That's the thanks that he wants.
That's what he needs from us.
So many people today don't get that message.
They treat things too transactionally.
And I see it all the time.
I saw it just this last week.
Last week, my daughter,
was playing in her school's volleyball championship game, right?
They were actually like nine and oh, I was very surprised.
They were nine and oh, hitting the championship game, right?
And it was last Sunday night, that was when the game was.
And before the game, they had a practice and we were just sitting around the parents watching the girls practice.
And one of the parents, you know, was just chatting with me saying, oh, you know, today, you know, my daughter,
She does not usually go to church, but I told her, you gotta go to church today and you gotta pray, please help us win the volleyball game or whatever, right?
And they did that and she's like, that mom, she was so nervous about the game, right?
And she told me that and I said, yeah, you know, we prayed for the game too, right?
And everything like that.
And so that evening went to the game and what happened?
They won, right?
They won the championship.
Everyone was really happy.
You could say praise God.
Our prayers were answered, right?
That we prayed for them.
They won the game, right?
Well, what happened after the game?
Everyone was so excited.
And it's like, oh, we should have a celebration.
The championship celebration.
And so whoever came up with the celebration said this, we should go watch a movie together.
Rent out a movie theater, private movie screening for some kid's movie and have all the girls go there and it'll be really fun, right?
So someone organized it.
But what date did they pick?
They picked today, Sunday at 11.30, meeting right now, right?
And so I said, hey, can we pick a different time?
I can't make it, right?
I gotta be right here, right?
There's no way I can make it, right?
And they said, oh, we checked and we checked.
We could not find another time, sorry.
And you know that mom, the one that said they made their kid go to church and pray and do all that stuff.
What she said to me was, oh,
Can't you just have Samantha skip church and just go to the thing?
Right?
And so I didn't say anything to her.
Okay.
I did.
I did not say this out loud.
This is I told Elaine, right?
I told privately, right?
Privately.
I said, you know, you know, that makes no sense.
We just prayed to God that, Oh God, please help us.
And now God finally answered our prayer and our reaction is we're not going to worship you at all.
And we're going to abandon you and not care about you.
What kind of message does that send?
Right?
So sure enough, at this moment, that mom is probably at the movie theater right now, sitting down and enjoying the movie with her kids.
And you know, I'm here, Samantha's here, our family's here, because you know what?
God just doesn't want our thanks out loud.
He wants our thanks and our worship.
He wants us to honor him like that.
If we don't have the honor of him, the respect and the praise for him in person sitting here, singing praises to him, honoring him through prayer together, through reading his word together, learning his word together, what's the point?
That word is so meaningless, right?
To say, oh, thanks, but I don't care about you.
I don't care enough to even show up even on Sunday morning to honor you, right?
So that's what I get from this.
story that praise, worship and thanks are intertwined.
We need to loudly praise God.
We need to worship God.
We need to give him thanks for everything.
And that's why next week we're going to have a great opportunity to do that with a Thanksgiving testimony.
It says in 1 Thessalonians 5, 18, and everything gives thanks for this is the will of God and Christ Jesus concerning you.
A lot of you guys might say, well, I love to do that.
but I got nothing to be thankful for, it seems, right?
And we know that's not true.
Remember, Nathan gave you 10 things that you don't think about being thankful for, that you should be, right?
Even in the worst of times, God is with us.
You say, oh, it's been horrible, past two years.
pandemic or whatever.
You know, I think about it and I thought about some of those Nathan type things on this list.
And I have a lot to be thankful for too.
I'm not going to say these things next week because I already got all this time to say it now, right?
Oh, you guys have a chance to say it next week, right?
To say something like this, thankful for my health.
You know, it's been a year and a half of pandemic.
I do not know anyone personally, personally that has gotten COVID-19.
I think that's amazing.
I think it's amazing.
I know one of my family members or
friend that I actually know, you know, got the disease.
Of course I've known people who know other people, right, that got the disease, but no one personally, none of my personal close friends, zero people.
I think that's amazing.
It's something to be praised for, right?
I haven't had to suffer the financial consequences of the pandemic.
I know some of you guys in the audience maybe have suffered a little bit, but my understanding from knowing you guys is that God carried you through.
I don't know anyone here that said, oh, I lost my house because of the pandemic.
I have nowhere to live because of pandemic.
Zero people here that like that.
You guys have always something thankful to say about that.
Even in this church right here, we have lots to be thankful for.
A lot of people might say, oh, it's been horrible, horrible.
The church thrown upside down.
I don't think so.
I think God has kept blessing us because we keep working.
We never stop.
We never give up.
In 2020, the worst year ever, the worst year ever, right?
Did you know that 52 people were saved at Chinese Bible Church?
52 more to heaven.
In 2021 where we did quote nothing.
It was horrible.
Wasn't horrible.
We got lots of thankful regard for.
We got 12 saved so far and we got a whole room of Chinese school people down there.
Hopefully that number will go up either at the end of this year and serve next year, right?
It's never as bad as you think it is.
There's always stuff we have to thank Jesus for, to thank God for.
Even, it's so horrible, right?
If it wasn't so horrible, we'd have so many things.
Did you know that we had the first ever person saved through our online ministry?
Yes, this video, you guys in TV land, someone actually watched this video and got saved, believe it or not, right?
That's one more person that wouldn't have got saved if it wasn't for this pandemic, right?
God blesses us all the time.
He needs our thanks.
He needs our praise.
He needs our loud praise here in his church, worshiping him, praising him, honoring him.
Are we going to do that next week?
Are you guys going to come up here with your loud voices and praise him and honor him and glorify him?
This is what Dr. John R. Rice said.
We ought to shout our Thanksgiving as if every war were over, as if there were no big taxes, as if there were no sickness, as if there were no crime.
That's the way Thanksgiving should be like.
Can we say that?
I hope the answer is yes.
Let's pray.
Dear God, thank you for this Thanksgiving season, a wonderful chance for us to praise you.
Even though it seemed like it might not be a great year, tough things, we know we always have things to praise you for and thank you for.
This leper gave us a great example of how he was able to loudly praise, glorify, and honor Jesus for what he had did.
Can we do the same?
Can we act in the same way, God?
I hope so.
I hope next week, we break that record that we had last year.
You know, that's another thing I forgot to mention that last year, because of the pandemic, we've had more testimony than ever.
Can we have even more this year?
I sure hope so.
God, thank you for watching over us.
Thank you for being with us.
I speak and please be with everyone the rest of this week.
And I hope everyone has a happy Thanksgiving.
We pray all these things in Jesus' name.
Amen.